[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Now they've taken that
high level overview we're gonna start with
our first section.
I've kinda broken these
into three main categories.
So we're gonna do editing,
how to create and edit files.
Then after that will do debugging,
how to take an app and start debugging it.
And then after that we're gonna spend
a good amount of time on profiling which
includes all the memories,
CPU all that stuff.
So the first one is editing and we're
gonna be sticking in the elements panel
and the sources panel,
those are the two for editing.
So cool, so we kinda started talking a
little bit about the elements panel here.
We've got this representation of the DOM,
how you can see all the different
things you can click through stuff.
And then by default it's on
the styles tab over here.
So there's a couple of things going on
that are I think worth pointing out.
One is at any time you can double
click into things to edit them.
But if at any time, and we're gonna
do this and some of the exercises,
you need to do a bigger edit
than double clicking allows.
Like for example, you can edit
the classes but how would you add an ID,
there's no place to double
click to add an ID.
That's actually not true cuz you can do
a little trick like you can add like ID
equals food, something like that and
it'll be smart enough to figure that out.
But just going forward, you can also right
click on anything and click edit as HTML
and it actually gives you this really
nice, I mean it's not pretty printed.
But it gives you like full access to
everything that that element includes
forward to change around.
So that one's pretty handy,
let me get out of here.
On the right side you'll see
all of these different things.
There's a couple of cool things you can
do here that are worth pointing out,
one of them is adding new selectors.
So if you're building a site on here, you
can click this plus for a new style rule.
And then you can go ahead and change the
actual selector, so you could select HTML.
And then you could do background blue or
something like that.
I'm not sure why that's not working,
body background blue.
So that looks terrible,
but you can actually
do more than just editing the current
selectors, you can add new ones.
You can simulate effects
like hovering over here.
So this is another thing that looks
dramatically different from Chrome Stable.
Chrome Stable has like
a little thumb tack logo.
Whereas in Canary,
you've got this hovering tool.
So you can simulate active,
focus, hover, and visited state,
which is really helpful.
I've often seen people trying to
work on some design things, so
they're actually hovering with their mouse
and then they go and they change the CSS,
something like that.
So what you can do using this neat tool,
so this kind of allows you to interact
with the website a lot easier.
So instead of finding
the element you want and
doing an inspect on it,
you can go ahead and click this.
And then you can start
browsing the page and
you can see that it highlights
which element you will go into.
So when you click an element in this mode,
it brings you right there in
the DevTools which is pretty useful.
So this is like you click here and you
find the element that you want to edit and
you click on it and it pops open
that element in the elements tab.
So then you could add like a hover
class to it which unfortunately I
don't have a very big hover effect,
so it's not really able to be seen.
But you can add those classes to
anything with with this over here.
Another thing that's really cool,
this happened to me a lot at Twitter.
Because Twitter, you have this timeline
that's infinitely long basically.
And sometimes I'd find an element in
here that was like the problematic one
that I wanted to be looking at.
But I have no idea where it
is in the document, right?
So let's let's kinda set this example up,
like a little bit of a contrived one.
But let's say that I find this thumbnail
here, which is for the timing tab.
But let's say that I'm
scrolled up here and
let's say that the distance is
actually huge between those two.
So if I hover over this element here,
the only kind of assist that I get, and
you can see up here this
tool tip will show.
And tool tip will just give me
an arrow like the element's down or
the element's up or the element's,
that's all it shows you.
So instead of kind of like scrolling and
then checking if it's still down.
They have this really neat thing that
they have where you can right click
on any element and
you can scroll into view.
And it actually moves your view port
around on the page to be centered around
that element.
So this is really great like single
page apps or anything that's,
you might be lost a little bit
trying to find where something is.
Another thing that's cool,
I use this all the time for
debugging, is you can use the H
key to hide and show elements.
So whatever you're focused on you can
just hit H to make it go away and
then H again to show it again.
That's nice for doing design work.
You can get some of the clutter out
of the way something like that.
Computed styles are great, so this app
that I've made is really simple, right?
There's only one style sheet, and
there's not a lot of selectors.
But again you can imagine working on
a big application, like Facebook or
something like that and
you start scrolling over here.
There's probably gonna be like
hundreds of competing selectors.
And sometimes you really just need to
figure out where is this border coming
from or
why is my text blue something like that.
So what you can do is you can go into
these computed styles over here.
And what this panel is it's basically,
after all is said and done,
all the rules are worked out all
of the what trumps what is done,
what styles are applied to this element.
And the first thing it gives you
is this kind of visualization of
the document object model.
So you see how wide and how tall
the element is, how much padding is on it,
how much border is on it and
if any how much margin is on it.
And these are actually the way
that the DOM works right?
So it goes from like
padding out to margin.
And then the second thing it
gives which is really helpful is
just the selectors that
are actively being applied.
So you could see if there was a border and
you're trying to figure out where it was
coming from you could click right here and
see exactly where that's coming from.
So again not super useful here,
but really really useful on a big
production app where you have
a ton of different selectors.